Hi

I have just installed 4 servers with Debian and OpenDJ-2.4.0 using the grafikal setup. No issues during setup. All four servers belong to the same replication topology which I also configured during the initial grafikal setup. The only thing I have changed during setup is portnumbers for replication (10001, 10002, 10003, 10004 for respective server. I also changed the 'admin'-account to 'repadmin'. Normal replication works fine when I'm change or add something in the data-suffix (userRoot). Schemareplication also works if I define a new attribut using the controlpanel. The 99-user.ldif is updated on all four servers and cn=schema as well. My problem occures when I'm trying to extend the schema with schemafiles. As proposed in documentation you just have to put a proper schemafile in .../config/schema. When I do that I can see my new attributes and objectclasses in controlpanel at the server where I put the file. After a short period of time the 'Save Changes'-button becomes active and I asume that it is at this stage, pressing the button, you actually write your new attribs and classes to cn=schema and the replication should occur. But that never happends. Pressing the button give me a message that the schema was uppdated (which I don't think it is). No replication take place and after a little while the 'Save Changes'-button becomes active again.
I have been doing a lot of test with this the last couple of days with no progress. The last try was to create a simple testattribut in controllpanel (which works) and then copy the data from 99-user.ldif. Then delete the same attribut in controlpanel. Put the copy in a new schemafile.ldif. Attribute now shows in controlpanel but when there's only attributes in the scemafile the 'Save Changes'-button for attributes never becomes active. Thinking of it now, 'Save Changes'-button for attributes didn't become active when I tried to add schemafile with both attribs AND classes either.
However, I also have searched the web for something like this without finding anything. Am I alone with this or is it an issue?
Attached you will find one of the schemafiles I want to add.

/Tomas