Bug description

The deployment-key tool man page says that the hostname default value is localhost.localdomain whereas the actual default is just localhost.
Reproduce case
Read the hostname default value from the man page

$ nroff -man path/to/opendj/workspace/opendj-doc-generated-ref/target/docbkx/manpages/man-pages/man1/deployment-key.1 | grep -A 3 hostname
               The hostname(s) that will be added to the TLS certificate
               alternative name extension. Multiple hostnames may be given by
               providing this argument multiple times. hostnames can start
               with a wildcard.

               Default: localhost.localdomain


Read the hostname default value from the tool help (i.e., the real value)

$ ./opendj/bin/deployment-key create-tls-key-pair --help | grep -A 1 hostname
-h, --hostname {hostname}
    The hostname(s) that will be added to the TLS certificate alternative name
    extension. Multiple hostnames may be given by providing this argument
    multiple times. hostnames can start with a wildcard
    Default value: localhost


Acceptance criteria

This issue can be closed once the man page contains the real localhost default value, i.e. localhost
Bug cause

Other tools like dsreplication and dsconfig have hostname arguments:

	--hostname
	--host1
	--host2
	--hostSource
	--hostDestination



These arguments have a computed default value which is the host name of the machine on which the command is run. 
It does not make much sense for the man page to mention the hostname of the machine that was used for building the manual, instead, it was decided that man pages describing these arguments would mention the default value as localhost.localdomain.
When building the man page, hostname arguments are distinguished from other arguments only with the argument names.

The deployment key tool has an argument called --hostname with a hard-coded (hence machine independent) default value: localhost.
Because the argument name matches the list of hostname arguments, the framework for building man pages considers that the documented default value should be changed to localhost.localdomain. See com.forgerock.opendj.cli.SubCommandArgumentParser#setSubCommandOptionsInfo
Fix suggestion

When building an argument, we could add the possibility to specify whether the default value is computed, in this case and in this case only, the man page framework would replace the actual default value with a "documented value" (passed as a parameter when building the argument).
The deployment-key tool should build the hostname argument with a static default value.
The other tools using hostname arguments should build the arguments with a computed default value and the "documented default value" should be set to localhost.localdomain