I saw in the 41.18 release notes that hidden units needs some testing.  Below are my notes on a few things that do and don't seem to work. The attached savegame offers the opportunity to run the same tests that I did.  337th has a Bloodhound AP and a Beagle AP equipped unit to test detection. Princess has a variety of hidden units to deploy. I set all of the applicable hidden units' stealth systems to active during the deployment phase for my tests. That still needs to be done when using the savegame.

Main rules in TW p259

Deployment:
I can't deploy hidden units into building hexes that have underlying pavement terrain, nor wooded and rough hexes with a road running through them.

Standing Mechs can deploy hidden in planted field hexes and swamp hexes (Not technically a rules violation, but doesn't make much sense...)

Movement:
Mech attempting to enter hex with a hidden mech (violating stacking) doesn't reveal the hidden mech. > This is ok per TW Errata v4.2.2015.6.6, but the game effect is weird. My mech just bounces off the hidden mech's hex and ends its movement with no explanation of why...

Firing:
Clearing a woods hex that contains a standing, hidden mech does not reveal the mech. (This is a grey area according to the rules, which don't give any information about this special case, but it stands to reason that a mech hiding in a forest should be revealed when the forest ceases to exist unless the mech is hidden and prone to start with...)

Firing a point blank shot does not reveal a hidden unit. According to p259 it should, as a unit only remains hidden until it attacks or moves.

Bot:

Princess bot is not able to fire point blank shots, nor activate hidden units. I'm aware that she doesn't have the intelligence to make the most effective use of the hidden units feature, but she might benefit from basic behavior, such as:

attempting a point blank shot whenever given the opportunity
automatically activating a unit after taking any point blank shot

She is able to automatically activate a unit that is revealed prematurely by sensors

Detection:

In Double-Blind play, 'undetected' units are revealed when in LOS of a hidden unit, which could potentially help players to find hidden units, especially in restricted terrain or low-visibility environmental conditions.

BAP-equipped units detect hidden units within LOS even when using 'standard' sensors instead of the BAP.

BAP-equipped units detect hidden battle armor equipped with improved stealth armor - see TacOps p278, only the bloodhound probe should be able to detect hidden infantry

BAP-equipped units detect conventional infantry without stealth armor - see TacOps p278, only the bloodhound probe should be able to detect hidden infantry

BAP-equipped units detect conventional infantry with stealth armor - these should be undetectable when hidden - see TacOps p278 

BAP-equipped units detect units with active void sig system - see TacOps p349, only the bloodhound probe should be able to detect a unit with an active void sig system

BAP-equipped units detect units with active null sig system - see TacOps p336, only the bloodhound probe should be 
[337th-HiddenUnitsTest.sav.gz](https://github.com/MegaMek/megamek/files/297797/337th-HiddenUnitsTest.sav.gz)
able to detect a unit with an active null sig system
